10-Hydroxycamptothecin induces apoptosis in human neuroblastoma SMS-KCNR cells through p53, cytochrome c and caspase 3 pathways.
Neuroblastoma (NB), the most common extracranial solid tumor in childhood, remains one of the most challenging types of cancer to treat. Therefore, the search for novel effective drugs for its treatment is essential. The present study used 10-hydroxycamptothecin (HCPT), which is a naturally occurring alkaloid anticancer agent extracted from the Chinese tree, Camptotheca acuminata, and has a strong anticancer activity in vitro and in vivo. HCPT is able to induce apoptosis in cells of various tumor types. However, few studies have been conducted on its efficacy in NB, and its apoptosis-inducing mechanism has not been elucidated. In the present study, the in vitro effects of HCPT on apoptosis in the human NB cell line, SMS-KCNR, and its underlying molecular mechanisms were investigated. Cell proliferation was measured by an MTT assay and apoptosis was measured using DAPI staining and flow cytometric analysis. In addition, western blot analysis was used to evaluate the apoptosis-associated signaling pathways. HCPT was observed to markedly inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in SMS-KCNR cells at a relatively low concentration (2.5-20 nM). DAPI staining revealed typical apoptotic feature, namely apoptotic body formation. The flow cytometric analysis revealed that the number of apoptotic cells increased from 20.89% (for 2.5 nM) to 97.66% (for 20 nM) following HCPT treatment for 48 h. Western blot analysis revealed that p53, cytoplasmic cytochrome c, cleaved caspase-3 and poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) proteins were significantly upregulated, while the mitochondrial cytochrome c and pro-caspase-3 proteins were downregulated. However, the B-cell lymphoma 2 and Bcl-2-associated X proteins were unaffected. The results indicated that HCPT may inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis in the SMS-KCNR cells. The possible mechanism of apoptosis induction is the p53-mediated mitochondrial apoptotic signaling pathway, which promotes cytochrome c release and induces apoptosis by activating caspase-3 and PARP. Our study provides experimental evidence for HCPT as a potent therapeutic drug in NB treatment.